=head1 NAME

Web::URL::Encoding - URL percent encoding and application/x-www-form-urlencoded

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::URL::Encoding;
  warn percent_encode_c $text;
  warn serialize_form_urlencoded {
    $name => $value,
    $name => [$value1, $value2],
  };

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::URL::Encoding> module exports a function for the
percent-encoding and the C<application/x-www-form-urlencoded>
encoding.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

The following functions are exported by default:

=over 4

=item $bytes = percent_encode_c $text

Percent-encode the string, encoded in UTF-8.  Anything other than
C<[A-Za-z0-9_.-]> are percent-encoded.

=item $bytes = oauth1_percent_encode_c $text

Percent-encode the string, encoded in UTF-8, for OAuth 1.0.

=item $bytes = serialize_form_urlencoded $params

Serialize a hash reference as an C<application/x-www-form-urlencoded>
bytes.

The argument must be a hash reference where keys are names of the
encoded form data set and values are corresponding values.

If the value is C<undef>, that key/value pair is ignored.  If the
value is an array reference, the items in the array are used as values
of name/value pairs with same name.  The order is preserved.  The
array can be empty.

The values are encoded in UTF-8.

=back

=head1 SPECIFICATIONS

URL Standard <https://url.spec.whatwg.org/>.

RFC 5849, The OAuth 1.0 Protocol
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5849>.

Encoding Standard <https://encoding.spec.whatwg.org/>.

When a text is encoded in UTF-8, UTF-8 encoder of the Encoding
Standard MUST be used.

=head1 HISTORY

The module partially derived from L<URL::PercentEncode>
<https://github.com/wakaba/perl-web-utils/blob/master/lib/URL/PercentEncode.pod>
and L<Web::UserAgent::Functions> and L<Web::UserAgent::OAuth> from
<https://github.com/wakaba/perl-web-useragent-functions>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2009-2013 Hatena <https://www.hatena.ne.jp/>.

Copyright 2014-2016 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
