=head1 NAME

Web::Origin - Origin API

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::Origin;
  $origin = Web::Origin->new_tuple ($host, $domain, $port);
  $origin = Web::Origin->new_opaque;
  warn $origin->is_opaque;
  warn $origin->to_ascii;
  warn $origin->to_unicode;
  warn $origin->same_origin_as ($origin2);

=head1 SYNOPSIS

The C<Web::Origin> object represents an origin.

=head1 METHODS

There are following methods:

=over 4

=item $origin = Web::Origin->new_tuple ($scheme, $host, $port)

Return a tuple origin.

The first argument must be a canonicalized (i.e. lowercase) URL
scheme.

The second argument must be a canonicalized host (i.e. domain, IPv4
address, or IPv6 address) string.

The third argument must be a port number or C<undef>.

=item $origin = Web::Origin->new_opaque

Return an opaque origin.

=item $boolean = $origin->is_opaque

Return whether the origin is an opaque origin (true) or tuple origin
(false).

=item $origin->set_domain ($host)

Set the domain of the origin.  The origin must be a tuple origin.  The
argument must be a host (L<Web::Host>) that is a domain.

=item $boolean = $origin1->same_origin_as ($origin2)

Return whether two origins are same origin or not.

=item $boolean = $origin1->same_origin_domain_as ($origin2)

Return whether two origins are same origin-domain or not.

=item $string = $origin->to_ascii

Return the ASCII serialization of the origin.

=item $string = $origin->to_unicode

Return the Unicode serialization of the origin.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Web::URL> has a method to create an origin object from a URL.

=head1 SPECIFICATION

HTML Standard <https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#origin>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2016 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
